All right.
Now that we understand the difference between sanitizing and validation let's add in some code to our
post request root handler that deals with sign up attempts inside of here.
I'm going to add in some whitespace qualities.
Chuckles I'm going to remove the is e-mail right there.
We're going to go through each of these different values and figure out what different sanitization
and validation steps we need to add in.
One quick thing what I've mentioned here is that usually we're going to do sanitization and then validation.
So first we check to see or excuse me first we're going to normalize and trim an e-mail.
Then we will validate that it actually is an e-mail after that so uncheck of email right here.
I'm going to chain on trim to make sure that we remove any leading or trailing whitespace.
I'll then call after that number we just saw in sanitizers normalize email so I'll do normalize email.
And then finally I'm going to validate this and make sure that it actually is something that looks like
an email.
So I'll say dot is email
it's that one is not so bad we'll move on to password next.
So the password we're going to also trim and then to validate this thing I'm going to make sure that
it has a minimum and a maximum length.
So it's make sure that as a minimum and maximum length of call is length and in passing an options object
with a min of four and a max of 20.
So that's going to make sure that the password provided has at least four characters and at most 20
if you want to take a look at the documentation to better understand that function right there we can
go back to this validators J.S. documentation page so again validator J.S. we can go down to the validator
section and then find is length inside of here
so eventually I will find it.
There we go.
Is length right there.
You'll notice that the second argument is an optional options object and inside there we can provide
an object that has a min and max property.
Now I know that I just said that there is a second argument of options.
Again remember that the express validator library that we're using is wrapping up all these functions.
And so we just ignore that first argument right there and we only have to pass in the second argument
in every case where everything you see inside of here now we can repeat that same process for password
confirmation as well so dot trim that is length the men of four and a max of 20 okay.
That's a good place to get started.
There are some additional checks we're going to add in here in just a moment.
Well let's first figure out how we actually kind of consume these validation messages.
In other words how do we communicate them back to ourselves and figure out whether or not what the user
just entered is making any sense whatsoever so for that we're going to require in a another function
from the Express validator function or library at the top here's check.
We're also going to require in validation results
then back down inside of our post request handler for sign up right at the very start of our callback
function.
I'm going to add in const ears is validation results and I'll pass in the request and then for right
now I'll do a console log of that is object.
We're just to see what we get back from this.
Note figure out how to actually interact with it.
The one thing one mentioned here is that when we do all this checking stuff the Express validator library
is going to attach the results of all this validation to the request object that is going to eventually
flow into our request handler so in order to get access to all that validation logic or the output of
it we are passing in the Rec object.
That is how information is being communicated from these steps into our actual function okay.
Let's say this go back over to our browser.
I'm gonna go to my sign up form I'm gonna enter in something that is definitely non email I can enter
a password that is one character and then I will enter in a password confirmation.
That is definitely longer than 20 characters.
So now I am validate or excuse me I am violating a validation rule for all three different values here
so I'll click on sign up.
Of course we still see our original validation appear.
Let's take a look at our terminal and see what we ended up console logging so if I go to my terminal
we'll see a whole bunch about put right here telling us exactly why the information that the user just
gave us is not at all correct.
So we can see that we've got errors that is going to be an array of objects each object corresponds
to one different property or parameter that we passed into that validation attempt.
So this is the validation error that occurred while we were trying to validate email here's the value
we got.
And here is the message that we ended up with.
So the message that we got was hey this is just an invalid value.
Next up is the password.
It's an invalid value doesn't really tell us anything more besides that.
But you and I know that it is an invalid value because it is not long enough and we can see the same
thing with password confirmation down here as well.
So now we just need to take this array of errors and somehow display each of these messages to the user.
In addition it would be kind of nice if we figured out how to display a better message to the user than
simply invalid value.
In the case of email I think that telling the user hey this is an invalid e-mail makes sense but in
the case of password and password confirmation.
The reason these are invalid is that the password is not long enough or not or too long in this case
so it'd be really nice to provide a message in both these cases that really clarifies that for the user
and say hey the password must be between four and 20 characters as opposed to just saying invalid value
because that right now doesn't really tell the user exactly what is going wrong.
OK so now that we've seen how to actually access this information it's clear that we need to figure
out how to provide some better messages in some of these cases.
In addition we need to figure out how to actually take this information and communicate it back to the
user next to our form.
Let's take a pause right here and come back the next video we're going to first focus on how we can
improve some of the messaging around these different validation errors.